All right, so we now have this new interim two new uniforms for suit and rank.
And we've revised the card class to utilize these two data types, these two enemies for its two main
properties.
But now, like, what can we do with this?
OK, so if we jump back over to the Wikipedia article on cards, I think it kind of gets clear that
if we were wanting to model a blackjack game using these concepts, then one key thing that we kind
of need, I think, is to be able to take a card and then get a value from that card, right?
So if you've got a two of whatever, that's going to have an ultimate value of two, if you've got a
jack, that's going to have an ultimate value of 10.
So what I'm thinking is let's make a test for the card class and then we're going to implement a little
bit of logic for this card to be able to give us its value.
OK.
So I'm going to do a command shift tee now.
I think I showed you in the testing module that when we do a command shift, we can toggle between the
test for the class and then the actual class.
But if you don't already have a test and you want to create one and you're on the class that you want
to write the test for, like in this case card and you do a command shift, then the ADC will offer
to create the new test for you.
And so that's kind of nice.
So I'm going to hit enter and notice that we have the option here already set to use the GI Unit five
library.
There are other options as well, such as previous version versions of J Unit, Groovy J Unit Spark
and Testing Spike and testing G in particular are some competing unit testing frameworks, but we're
going to stick with G Unit five.
The ADC takes the class name that we were already working on and just tax on the word test to the end
of it.
To create the new name for the test class, which is a fairly standard naming convention, it will use
the same package that we're already in now.
We could opt to have it create a skeleton setup method or tear down method we kind of learned about
set up before we didn't learn about tear down, but it's pretty much the opposite of setup.
So any time we need to set things up before the tests run, they can go into the setup.
And any time we need to get rid of things or tear them down, we can do that with a tear down method
so this can generate the beginnings of those methods for us.
Obviously, it won't be smart enough to know like what do we actually need to do?
And then we'd have to write that code ourselves still.
And then any methods that we already have in the class, in the system under test it can offer.
If we were to put check marks in any of these, it will offer to generate starter test methods as well.
We won't be utilizing any of that, though.
So go ahead and click OK.
All right.
And so we've got our new test class, and I'll just confirm that that was created in the correct place,
which is under the test folder, Java and then our same package, but now a class called card test.
OK, so these two classes kind of go hand in hand card in card test.
All right.
So now we can create a new test.
Let me also show you you can have the I.D. generate the beginnings of that test method for you.
So on Mac, we can do a command in and then tell it to generate.
And of course, for Windows and Linux users, I think you'll have to just right click and choose Generate
and then we can.
We have all these options here so we can tell it to create a test method.
We could also say create a setup method, tear down, et cetera, et cetera.
All right.
So I'm going to choose test method.
And so we just get this nice little beginning boilerplate and it does the import of the annotation and
all of that for us.
So that's kind of nice.
All right.
So let's just make a test to test our ability to get the value from a card.
OK.
And I don't know what that card is going to be yet.
So for right now, I'm going to just say I don't know can get the value of a card.
We'll probably come back and rename this once I decide, you know what card that's going to be.
And so let's create an instance of a card card.
One equals new card.
And so for the suit, let's make it sure diamonds is find is fine.
And for the rank, let's make it.
Well, I guess let's start with something relatively simple here.
So let's do a rank of two and then let's assert equals.
So let's assert that there will be a method that we could call on this object to get its.
Value, so let's just call it get value.
OK, so obviously that does not exist yet.
And let's also assume or let's even assert that once we do have that method created and implemented
properly that if we were to get it this scenario here, we would get back an integer with a value of
two.
You see where I'm going with this.
So for the rank two, we get back a value of two.
All right.
So let's go ahead and create this method.
So we'll put the cursor right here on the word get value and I'll do an option return and choose to
create that method.
And I will accept that default there and we'll accept this default method implementation for right now.
And then if I do a command shift to jump back over to the test now the read has gone away.
And I will run this test, watch it fail.
And then we will implement it and make it pass.
So I'll do a control shift are to run this test.
All right.
Let's see what we got here.
Yes, so we were expecting a two, but we got a zero.
All right.
As expected.
So now let's jump in to the get value method here and fix this now in the standard of TDD, the standard
thing I should do is to simply hard code that with a to rerun the test, OK, see that it passes and
then go back over to the test and then create another test, right?
So I will do that now, so I will copy this and we'll create another test with a different scenario.
So now I know what my scenario was, by the way.
So let me revisit this method name so I can get value of a.
So I'm going to change the name of this method.
A little bit of a two.
I don't think I need to say diamonds because that's not really going to factor into the value.
We already know that.
So I'm just going to say can get the value of a two card.
I'll just say that.
So here, I will say, can get value of a three card.
And so I will change that rank to three.
Like so.
And then will change the expected to a three and run all of the tests.
All right.
And as expected, one test passes, the other fails.
And so now we will be forced to actually make this work for real.
All right.
So let's jump in to the get value method.
And so now we know that we can't just hard code values here.
We need to actually do something.
So now we will learn a little bit more about enemies.
So let's jump in to the rank enum here and talk a little bit about how this works.
So as as I've mentioned, now, an enum is really just a special form of a class.
And as such, enemies actually have a few methods and properties inherent in them.
OK?
And one of the methods that is available on all enemies is a method called ordinal.
And what that method does is it can return and ordinal number that is associated with any given constant.
So what do I mean by that?
Well, imagine if we could associate an index, if you will, with each of these constants starting
with zero.
So let's pretend like aces zero two is one, three is two and so on and so forth.
OK, then if we were to call the ranked ordinal method, it would return whatever that imaginary number
is that is associated with the value or the constant of this enum.
So let's let's see what that looks like.
So what we could potentially do is instead of returning that to, we might be able to return this dot
rank dot.
And now look, here, we've got a few methods on here.
We've got name right.
We've also got ordinal, though.
And if I hover on this method for ordinal, we actually can see here it returns the ordinal of this
enumeration constant.
OK.
In other words, what position that constant comes within its list, OK, its position and its enum
declaration?
All right.
So let's see what happens if we just run our tests with this method.
OK, so we'll jump back over here and just rerun all the tests.
Oh, OK.
We just took two steps back, right?
Because now both tests are failing.
So let's see in what way they are failing.
So I will click on the first test that we wrote and we were expecting a two and we got a one.
And then I'll click on this other one and we were expecting a three, but we got it too.
So it looks like our ordinal rolls are sort of working, but they are one value below what we were expecting,
and I'll show you why that is.
I pretty much already explained that, in fact.
So if we jump back over.
If we jump back into the into the enum class itself, so these ordinances are zero based.
OK, so ACE would have the number of zero associated with it, two would have the value of one associated
with it.
And so they're all kind of like one below what we might have intuitively expected them to be valued
at.
Right.
So how can we fix that in our new method to get the value?
Well, I think this is pretty easy.
How about we just add plus one plus one, right?
So we'll kind of just shift everything up by one, right?
So let's run all the tests again and look at that.
Everything's passing now.
OK, test past two.
Got the nice green checkmark there?
All right.
So this is a sometimes useful little property or method of enemies to be able to get that ordinal.
Now we do want to be careful using this, though, and in fact, it is actually advised in in many cases
not to depend on this.
And let me show you why.
So we'll jump back over here into the ranking.
All right.
So this is working out nicely as long as these constants remain in exactly this order right now.
In this particular case, I'm pretty comfortable going ahead and proceeding with using the ordinal to
get this numeric value here, because in this particular case, these constants have a meaningful order,
right?
They really represent numbers for the most part, and even these face cards down here even represent
essentially numbers of of a kind, right?
Even the ace, one of its values that it can represent, is a one.
And so it does make sense to have this be associated with zero plus one or, you know, one plus one
for the two and so on and so forth, right?
They are in a real order.
However, when we when we start working with the Suit Enum, it might make a lot less sense to try to
depend on ordinal values for the suits.
In fact, here let's let's jump over to the suit.
So here it may be more detrimental to try to associate an ordinal value and use that with these constants
because there is no logical inherent ordering of these constants.
I mean, I suppose we could have put them in alphabetical order.
And I guess maybe they already are clubs, diamonds, hearts.
Yeah, I guess they are in alphabetical medical order.
But you know, I don't I don't think we would want to rely on that to ensure that they always remain
in that order.
Right of some other programmer came in here and had done something or just move them around, shuffled
them around or whatever.
Suddenly, your code would be broken if you had written any code that was depending on the ordinal value
associated with these constants.
So be careful there.
But like I said, I'm more comfortable doing it here because this order really does make sense for these
constants.
All right, so let's go make a few more tests because we need to try out a few other scenarios now,
right?
So let's see what would happen with the ACE.
That's going to be an interesting one I think can get value of an ace card.
So we'll set this to ace.
And so what should the value be here?
Because this is a little bit more complicated one, right?
The ace actually can be valued as a one or an 11.
So I'm going to just tell you now what I'm inclined to do for right now is if we're if we just have
an ace by itself and we call it get value, let's just make it so that it's just going to return a one
that's generally going to be a safe value to get out of it.
And when we get into some more complicated scenarios, then we can get fancier with the logic somewhere.
OK, but for now, let's just say that an ace should yield a one whenever we call the get value method.
All right, so let's run all the tests and see what we get and awesome.
So by virtue of the fact that the ace is the first constant in the list of ranks, which sets it to
zero, and then we're adding one, we're already getting the right value for the ace, so that works
out.
Great.
All right.
And so now let's move on to the face cards.
So let's do the jack can get value of
a Jack card.
All right.
So if we have a jack?
We expect that the value, according to the rules, should be 10.
Right.
So let's run all the tests and see what we end up with.
All right.
So that failed as expected and if we jump into the get value method.
So we've got something here.
How do we want to handle this so we could use maybe some kind of a conditional like that says if the
rank is a jack, then return one thing.
Otherwise we turn this.
Let's let's see what that would look like, in fact.
So maybe we can use a ternary just to keep it short for right now?
Let's see what this might look like.
So if here, let me put a little space there first, if this doesn't rank equals.
Now, one other nice thing about genomes is you can just use the equals sign the equals operator.
If this doesn't rank equals.
And let me show you something else you can do, Jack.
I can just type the word jack here.
And the ADP knows that I'm talking about the constant called Jack, which is on the rank enum.
The reason the ID knows this is because it knows that I'm comparing to an enum of type rank, so it's
smart enough to figure that out, OK?
So this that rank equals Jack.
So then I can kind of use a ternary and say, like if this that rank equals Jack or ranked Jack, then
10 otherwise return this, OK?
So we can do that.
Let's run this now.
Hey, and that fixed that.
So that's cool, right?
But let's see what happens when we make another test for another one of the face cards.
So how about King?
All right.
So if we've got a king, we expect that that all also should return a 10.
So let's run all the tests and see what we end up with now.
And no, that failed, and we got it back a 13, because it's not a jack and therefore it.
Well, here let's jump back into the get value method to see why.
So a king is not a jack, so this does not pass muster.
And so instead of returning a 10, we return the ordinal value, right?
So that's what's happening there.
So we need a better way to handle all face cards Jack, Queen and King, right?
We could use a bigger if bloc and say if this start rank is Jack, return 10 else.
If this rank is queen, return 10, right, we could do something like that.
We also, if you remember, could use a switch, right?
Let's see what that might look like, in fact.
So if we did a switch on this rank, so now not only we can use a switch, but we can use what is considered
to be the newer version of the Switch, which is a switch expression.
And so in this case, we would use the word case, but we would skip the colon as you initially learned.
And instead, we can just specify a constant right so we can do jack comma, queen, comma king like
so.
And notice I'm not having to type out the entire constant ranked jack ranked queen ranking again, because
Java can infer that these are constants of the data type that comes from this variable here, this dot
ring.
So it figures out, OK, you're talking about a rank, so you don't have to do all that extra typing.
You can just mention the the constants themselves.
All right.
Now here we use the arrow indicator or the arrow sign, if you will, and then the value that we want
to be able to return.
So in this case, a 10 followed by a semicolon.
Now we're getting the red squiggly here because we're not quite done defining things here.
This is now going to be an actual expression, which means that it can return a value, right?
And so we need a semicolon, for one thing.
And then we also need to do something with the value that it's going to return.
Now what I'm inclined to do here is actually just use a return statement here.
And I suppose for right now, I will comment that bit out.
And then we need to handle the situation where it doesn't match a jack queen or king, right?
So what we can do here is to have a default case.
So that is to say for all other scenarios, arrow operator there.
And then we can just use this little snippet of code here to return the ordinal plus one.
Like so and now there are no more errors here, so in other words, we're saying, all right, if it's
a jack queen or king, just map all of those 10 for everything else, map it to whatever it's ordinal
is plus one.
OK.
Does that make sense?
And I will delete that last that original return statement that we had.
And so now let's rerun all the tests.
Hey, and look at that now everything is passing.
Now, let me remind you, this switch statement only works from, I believe Java version 14 had like
a preview.
I think in 13, though.
So if you ever find yourself working on a job as a Java developer and you think, Oh, I could use this
switch expression where I use the Arrow operator and all of this, you are only allowed to do that if
you're in Java 14 or higher if you're in a lower version of Java.
You'd have to use the older version of a switch, and because of that, you would have to do more typing
right.
You wouldn't be able to do this nice, concise form here where you can map Jack, Queen and king really
quickly and concisely to 10, right?
All right, so let's wrap this one up, and we'll look at a few more scenarios in the next lesson.
So I'll see you there.